today lots of girls play sports but for
a long time girls were not encouraged to
kick throw run jump shoot slide or hit
like boys so why did things change and
how much have they changed our girls and
boy is treated equally when it comes to
sports to begin to answer these
questions we have to look back in 1972
Congress passed a law called title 9
which protected girls and women from
discrimination in schools colleges and
universities
this included discrimination in school
sponsored sports at that time only 15%
of college athletes were women and in
high schools only 7% of athletes were
girls female athletes didn't get a lot
of support either and often had to
provide their own uniforms and equipment
it was title 9 that forced school
administrators to make sports more equal
but what does equal mean in sports the
government developed rules to measure
equality under two general categories
participation and treatment in the early
days of title 9 the number of girls
playing sports was so low that it would
have been very difficult for schools to
suddenly provide exactly the same number
of opportunities for girls and boys
instead the government wrote rules that
gave schools three options or tests to
demonstrate fairness and opportunities
for girls the three tests are
proportionality progress and satisfied
interests a school can pick which tests
to follow proportionality means that
girls should receive the same percentage
of athletic opportunities as the
percentage of girls in the student body
so a 51% of students are girls then
girls should have approximately 51
percent of the opportunities to play
sports the second test progress require
schools to make up for the days when
girls had fewer opportunities by adding
new sports for girls on a regular basis
the third test asks if girls interest in
athletics are satisfied under this test
as
school must regularly ask female
students what sports they are interested
in and also take into consideration the
popularity of certain sports in the area
where the school is located it must then
add teams according to the girls
interests another important part of
title 9 is that it doesn't just look at
how many athletic opportunities are
available to each sex but whether those
opportunities are of equal quality
specifically title 9 requires equality
between boys and girls teams for things
like equipment and supplies publicity
the scheduling of games and practice
times and the quality and number of
coaches girls should also have equal
access to locker rooms practice spaces
and competitive facilities as well as
medical services so if the best time to
play basketball is on Friday nights
because that's when most parents and
fans can come then the girls and boys
teams should take turns playing on
Friday night if boys teams play in a
stadium with lights scoreboards and
concession stands then girls teams must
have the same opportunity either by
sharing those facilities are getting
their own of equal quality but as we all
know just because a law exists doesn't
mean that everybody follows it school
officials are responsible for making
sure there is fairness in sports but you
can help too by keeping an eye on your
own school look around are there a lot
more boys than girls who play sports is
the boys soccer field better than the
girls our athletic trainers available to
all teams equally does the baseball team
get new uniforms every year while the
softball team gets them every three
years if you think there might be
inequality in your schools you can
approach a school administrator
a parent or the Office of Civil Rights a
government agency that makes sure
schools comply with title nine because
equality is important for everyone both
on the field and off